You can now use PostHog for X less (#8218)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/cheaper-analytics.md

---
date: 2024-06-21
title: 'PostHog is now up to 80% cheaper'
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_is_the_cheapest_e77c4ea4a5.jpg
author:
  - james-hawkins
tags:
  - PostHog news
---
import {ProductScreenshot} from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

export const Pricing = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_ba910c9535.jpg"
export const PricingDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_dark_6b11387d6c.jpg"
export const PricingComparison = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_f0c9e11f40.jpg"
export const PricingComparisonDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_dark_ecf7d726c0.jpg"

## tl;dr

* You can now use PostHog's product and web analytics for up to 80% less, making us cheaper than any popular competitive product.

> * This is possible because we've introduced new event processing option that allows you to capture events without person information. Previously we processed every event with person information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This is possible because we've introduced new event processing option that allows you to capture events without person information. 

* Previously we processed every event with person information. Now, you can choose when you need this level of detail for a person you are tracking.
```

> * This allows us to reduce our costs for events that do not need person information. We're passing this saving to our customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This allows us to reduce our costs for events that do not need person information. We're passing this saving onto our customers.
```

> * If you use this option, we are by far the cheapest way to track your product compared to any major analytics competitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We've split the prices for existing customers, so you'll see an extra line item on your invoice. **Your overall price has not gone up**, it's simply now split between the base event price and the person profile add-on.
```

Restoring @raquelmsmith's suggestion. Raquel, should we mention what the new line item is called?

Reviewer 2: Yep, I edited your suggestion above 👍

<br />

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={Pricing} 
  imageDark={PricingDark} 
  alt="New PostHog pricing" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

## Pricing before and after

| Tier (up to) | New base event price (without person information) | Price for base events + person information (equal to old pricing)  |
| ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 1M | $0 | $0 | $0 |
| 2M | $0.0000198 |  $0.000248 |
| 15M | $0.0000343 |  $0.000104 |
| 50M | $0.0000295 |  $0.0000655 |
| 100M | $0.0000218 |  $0.0000364 |
| 250M | $0.0000150 | $0.0000187 |
| ∞ | $0.000009 | $0.00001 |

Note: We can offer further discounts if you are beyond 250M events/month regardless. At that scale, we suggest you [talk to us](/talk-to-a-human).

## Who is this for?

Anyone who:

> - Isn't tracking an existing event type because it is high volume and thus would have been prohibitively expensive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Isn't tracking an existing high-volume event because it would be prohibitively expensive.
```

> - Has a marketing or content website with lots of anonymous traffic – you can now track this much less expensively than before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Has a marketing or content website with lots of anonymous traffic.
```

> - Is tracking API or server events (especially at high volumes) – you can now track this much less expensively than before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Is tracking API or server events, especially at high volumes.
```

> - Is a price-sensitive customer and is willing to lose some functionality for a lower spend with us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Is a price-sensitive customer and is willing to lose some functionality for a lower spend with us.

- Has turned off [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) for anonymous traffic due to cost, but would like the ability to capture user behavior and interactions without needing to manually set up events.
```

Reviewer: This restores Raquel's suggestion that got lost when I was doing stuff

Person profiles are not an all-or-nothing thing; you can use them on any traffic where you need more detailed information, and skip them when you don't need that detail.

## How do I start using this new processing option?

For most people, it only requires a simple config change to include `process_persons: "identified_only"`. 

This will track anonymous traffic without person profiles, and start collecting person information any time an identifying action is taken (i.e. using `identify()`, `group()`, setting person properties with `$set`, etc).

You can get instructions for this and other use cases in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).

## FAQs

### Is this change sustainable?

Yes! 

Here's why:

* Out of all the major competitors we have, we believe we are by far the most efficient – we are 100% inbound, so we don't need to pay for an outbound sales team, and grow through word of mouth.

* This pricing still reflects us making a positive margin on every event sold.

* We suspect this will increase our word-of-mouth growth and increase our retention, so we are likely to make more revenue with this change, but at a lower margin.

> * The majority of our customers use multiple products that we offer, so we wind up making a little money off a lot of products - our competitors are not as wide, so we believe long term we can undercut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The majority of our customers use multiple products that we offer, so we wind up making a little money off a lot of products - our competitors are not as wide, so we believe long term we can undercut.

### Will this make my bill more expensive if I keep using person profiles?

  * No. We've split the historical pricing between the base event cost and the person profiles cost. You'll see a new line item on your invoice, but your overall event price won't go up even if you continue to use person profiles on every event. 
  
* You can only save money with this new option.
```

> ### Why aren't you making the events with person properties cheaper too?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why aren't you making the events with person profiles cheaper too?
```

> * Events with person properties cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Allowing customers to choose to not send person properties for certain event types means we can cut our own costs of providing our product to our customers. 
> 
> * This aligns our interests with our customers, and means we can make a positive margin on all events ingested (beyond our free tier), so it is sustainable but not greedy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Because events with person profiles cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Allowing customers to choose to not send person profiles for certain event types means we can cut our own costs of providing our product to our customers. 

* This aligns our interests with our customers, and means we can make a positive margin on all events ingested (beyond our free tier) so it is sustainable but not greedy!

* We do hope to lower the person profiles cost at lower volumes in the somewhat near future.
```

Restores @raquelmsmith's suggestion

---
date: 2024-03-21
title: 'PostHog is now up to 12x cheaper'

> rootPage: /blog

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rootPage: /blog
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_is_the_cheapest_e77c4ea4a5.jpg
```

Adds blog art.

sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
  - james-hawkins
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - Product updates
---

## tl;dr

* It is now possible to use PostHog's product and web analytics for up to ~12x less, depending on your volumes

> * This change applies to all existing and new customers for any events that have no person properties set

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This change applies to all customers for any events that don't have person properties
```
If you say 'all' then you don't need the qualifiers 'existing and new'.
Also, 'have no person properties set' is oddly worded, as you're implying the presence of a negative.

> * This change applies to all existing and new customers for any events that have no person properties set

Reviewer 2: This isn't precisely true. You can still send an event with no new person properties, but get charged the "events with person properties" price.

```suggestion
* This change applies to all existing and new customers for any events where we don't do person property processing
```

## Pricing before and after

| Tier (up to) | Personless Price (per event) | Previous pricing / our new pricing for events with person propertie |
| ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 1M | $0 | $0 | $0 |
| 2M | $0.00002 |  $0.000248 |
| 15M | $0.00002 |  $0.000104 |
| 50M | $0.00002 |  $0.0000655 |
| 100M | $0.00002 |  $0.0000364 |
| 250M | $0.000009 *price changes here | $0.0000187 |
| ∞ | $0.000009 | $0.00001 |

(we can offer further discounts if you are beyond 250M events/month regardless - at that scale, we suggest you talk to us)

## Why we're excited to be the cheapest

* We think this makes us the best value product analytics software by a long way
* Everyone else has far fewer features available in their free or lower priced tiers - we only limit team-oriented features (like advanced permissioning). Instead of this, by changing slightly the data we capture, we can pass these savings along to customers directly.
* We have lots of other products, we think we're better off long term making a little money from a lot of products.

<INSERT GRAPH COMPARING US TO COMPETITORS>

## What's the downside of sending this type of event?

> If you are a price sensitive customer, we'd recommend you make this change for anonymous traffic.

Reviewer 3: Personally, I don't think we should recommend this so strongly. We instead need to foreground that there are downsides to using this approach and couch the explanation in the fact that users have greater control. 

Basically, if this is positioned as a way to save money, I can see users turning it on and then asking us why data is looking weird or things aren't working.

---
date: 2024-03-21
title: 'PostHog is now up to X cheaper'
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
  - james-hawkins
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - Product updates
---

## tl;dr

* It is now possible to use PostHog for X less
* This change applies to all existing and new customers
* The average customer can save X%
* This cuts pricing for product analytics and web analytics

> * We are intending on more price cuts, this is the start!

Reviewer 3: We should consider if we want to announce this now, or not. If we imply it's going to get cheaper (whether via control or reduction) later then users may wait before signing up. 

It's also always possible that decisions will change. I'm all for being open about what we're working on, but in an announcement like this it's best to be clear and certain - focus on what is changing _now_, rather than what probably will change _later_.

## Why we're excited to be the cheapest

* we think this makes us the best value product by a long way
* everyone else severely limits features available in their free or lower priced tiers - we don't
* we have resisted this temptation and think by changing slightly the data we capture, we can pass these savings a
* the markets we're in are commoditized - everyone's products are pretty similar
* we thinking prov

<INSERT GRAPH COMPARING US TO COMPETITORS>

## What's the downside of sending this type of event?

If you are a price sensitive customer, we'd recommend you make this change for anonymous traffic.

The reason we don't recommend this for _all_ anonymous traffic if you are less price sensitive is that if you send persons without properties, there are some downsides of this tradeoff:

* users' profiles won't have any properties set (such as email addresses), so you won't be able to identify specific users
* you can't filter your visualizations based on user properties, or adjust targeting of cohorts based on them
* you won't be able to track users across multiple visits, multiple sites or across different devices - they will show up as separate users

> * you won't be able to use our "transformer" plugins - such as geoip

Reviewer 4: This is now separate. We might want to call out that to get the cheapest price you need to unsubscribe from data pipelines and groups add-ons

---
date: 2024-03-21
title: 'PostHog is now up to 80% cheaper'
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
  - james-hawkins
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - Product updates
---

## tl;dr

* It is now possible to use PostHog's product and web analytics for up to 80% less, depending on your volumes. We can be used more cheaply than any popular competitive product.
* We have a new event processing option that allows you to capture events without person information.

> * Previously we processed every event with person information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously we processed every event with person information. Now you can do this only when you need this level of detail for a person you are tracking.
```

* This allows us to reduce our costs for events that do not need person information. We can pass this saving to our customers.

> * This means, if you use this option, we are by far the cheapest way for you to track your product compared to any major analytics competitor of ours

Reviewer 2: I think this one is redundant / unnecessary. I'd replace with:

```suggestion
* We've split the prices for existing customers, so you'll see an extra line item on your invoice. **Your overall price has not gone up**, it's simply now split between the base event price and the person profile add-on.
```

## Pricing before and after

> | Tier (up to) | New event price without person information | Previous pricing / our new pricing for events with person information |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Tier (up to) | New base event price (without person information) | Price for base events + person information (equal to old pricing)  |
```

| ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 1M | $0 | $0 | $0 |
| 2M | $0.0000198 |  $0.000248 |
| 15M | $0.0000343 |  $0.000104 |
| 50M | $0.0000295 |  $0.0000655 |
| 100M | $0.0000218 |  $0.0000364 |
| 250M | $0.0000150 | $0.0000187 |
| ∞ | $0.000009 | $0.00001 |

> (we can offer further discounts if you are beyond 250M events/month regardless - at that scale, we suggest you talk to us)

Reviewer 2: Is this line necessary? Makes me wonder why we'd even list a price at this level if we just go ahead and discount but not be transparent about the discount.

Maybe replace with:

```suggestion
(we can offer further discounts for those paying more than $2k/mo on an annual contract - at that scale, we suggest you talk to us anyway)
```

## Who this is for

- If you are not tracking any existing event type because it is high volume and thus would have been prohibitively expensive before
  - If you have a marketing or content website with lots of anonymous traffic, you can now track this much less expensively than before

>   - If you are tracking API or server events (especially at high volumes), you can now track this much less expensively than before

Reviewer 2: add autocapture use-case

```suggestion
  - If you are tracking API or server events (especially at high volumes), you can now track this much less expensively than before
  - If you've turned off [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) for anonymous traffic due to cost, but would like the ability to capture user behavior and interactions without needing to manually set up events.
```

> - If you are a price-sensitive customer and are willing to lose some functionality for a lower spend with us

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are a price-sensitive customer and are willing to lose some functionality for a lower spend
```

## How we compare to our comeptitors

* This makes us the best value popular (>$10M in revenue) product analytics software by a long way

> * Apart from being more expensive, everyone else _also_ has far fewer features available in their free or lower priced tiers - we only limit team-oriented features (like advanced permissioning).

Reviewer 2: This isn't precisely true, though it's something that's in the works.

```suggestion
* Apart from being more expensive, everyone else _also_ has far fewer features available in their free or lower priced tiers - we only limit super advanced and team-oriented features (like advanced permissioning).
```

<INSERT GRAPH COMPARING US TO COMPETITORS>

## What's the downside of sending this type of event?

There are some limitations with the new event type - you cannot do the following:

> - Filtering on persons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Filter charts and replays on person properties
```

> - Cohorts filtered on person properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create cohorts based on person properties
```

- Target by person properties for feature flags, a/b tests and surveys
- Receive initial UTM values for tracking marketing campaign performance
- View a person’s profile in the app or query the persons table in our SQL insights

> - Groups functionality on standard events (without person profiles)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use groups functionality
```

> If you need the above functionality, just continue to send person information with your events (no need to change anything), for events where the specific functionality is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need the above functionality, just continue to send person information with your events (no need to change anything), for events where the specific functionality is needed. 

Person profiles are not an all-or-nothing thing; you can use them on any traffic where you need more detailed information, and skip them when you don't need that detail.
```

> ## FAQs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How do I start using this new processing option?

For most people, it only requires a simple config change to include `process_persons: "identified_only"`. This will track anonymous traffic without person profiles, and start collecting person information any time an identifying action is taken (ie using `identify()`, `group()`, setting person properties with `$set`, etc).

You can get instructions for this and other use-cases on our [People doc](/docs/data/persons).

## FAQs
```

* Is this change sustainable?
  * Yes!
    * out of all the major competitors we have, we believe we are by far the most efficient - we are 100% inbound (so we don't need to pay for an outbound sales team) and grow through word of mouth
    * this pricing still reflects us making a positive margin on every event sold
    * we suspect this will increase our word of mouth growth and increase our retention, so we are likely to make more revenue with this change, but at a lower margin
    * the majority of our customers use multiple products that we offer, so we wind up making a little money off a lot of products - our competitors are not as wide, so we believe long term we can undercut.

> * Why aren't you making the events with person properties cheaper too?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Will this make my bill more expensive if I keep using person profiles?
  * No. We've split the historical pricing between the base event cost and the person profiles cost. You'll see a new line-item on your invoice, but your overall event price won't go up even if you continue to use person profiles on every event. You can only save money with this new option.
* Why aren't you making the events with person properties cheaper too?
```

>   * Events with person properties cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Allowing customers to choose to not send person properties for certain event types means we can cut our own costs of providing our product to our customers. This aligns our interests with our customers, and means we can make a positive margin on all events ingested (beyond our free tier) so it is sustainable but not greedy!

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is worth saying, but it is the plan in my head. 

```suggestion
  * Events with person properties cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Allowing customers to choose to not send person properties for certain event types means we can cut our own costs of providing our product to our customers. This aligns our interests with our customers, and means we can make a positive margin on all events ingested (beyond our free tier) so it is sustainable but not greedy!
  * We do hope to lower the person properties cost at lower volumes in the somewhat near future.
```
